---
layout: post
title:  "How I built my home server"
date:   2021-09-24 18:00:27 +0200
tags: programming server
---
Last year I suddenly developed the urge to familiarize myself with servers and the web. What _exactly_ got me crazy enough to dabble into that world, I do not know, but at the time I was enjoying programming a lot and I wanted to take it to the next level. 

Probably, if you want to dabble with a server, it is best to buy a cheap VPS from a nearby hosting provider. However, I wanted some actual computing power and I was not happy with the subscriptions I could find online. Furthermore, I wanted to customize not just the software, but the hardware too.

So I bought a bunch of components and built my own PC. Nothing fancy, but quite decent and with an integrated graphics card for convenience. Thankfully, a friend who is quite knowledgeable about servers and networking recommended me to install [Proxmox](https://www.proxmox.com/en/). Proxmox is an operating system (built on top of Debian Linux) that allows you to manage large numbers of 'virtual machines' (VMs), which act like completely independent computers. Furthermore, they are fully isolated from the 'host' (the main operating system), providing strong security.

By assigning only a few tasks to each VM, you can tailor their environment for their needs. In this post, I want to document my experience setting up a home server, including my own authentication system and website. The reason I'm writing this now is because I finally figured out how to set up a system to connect to the server from *outside* my local network, so the basic infrastructure is complete.

**Configuring your PVE host**
With 'PVE host' I mean the main operating system running Proxmox VE, i.e. your physical PC. For enhanced security, I encrypted my installation. You can do this by first installing Debian with a standard encryption scheme and then [installing Proxmox on top of it](https://pve.proxmox.com/wiki/Install_Proxmox_VE_on_Debian_Buster). However, you can also just install Proxmox directly. The main issue I encountered in this step was that my internet just would not work. 
